CS-305 Software Security 8-1 Journal: Portfolio

Nahom Mekonen


  For this task I worked under the idea that, as a developer for a software company, Global Rain, that specializes in custom software design and development for entrepreneurs, businesses, and government agencies around the world. Our mission mission is that “Security is everyone’s responsibility.” We were tasked with assisting Artemis Financial in modernizing its operations and apply the most current and effective software security. Artemis Financial has a RESTful web application programming interface (API) and is seeking Global Rain’s expertise in taking steps to protect the organization from external threats. With this I felt I did an okay job, as the world of online security is constantly and consistently changing it does make it a bit difficult to keep up. Securing all transactions and communications are of paramount importance to any business, but especially for a financial institution protect the customer/client data and company information as well as their intellectual property. Also, since the Artemis Financials’ web-based software is a financial consulting company that develops individualized financial plans, it is important to secure every single communication that involves customer's account (username and password even bank account) during the process of assessment. 
  Reguarding the approach of how to secure their system I looked at the key components of the code. Code Quality: ensuring that the code is written in such a manner that is readable. Secure coding: good code sanitization, such as exception handling and error checks, maintain the consistency in the business logic of the application. Cryptography: Lack of proper encryption can result to a compromise of the integrity and confidentiality of the information when it is transmitted over the internet. Client/Server: Secure communication between the customer (client) and the backend of the web application (server) for financial transactions. API: This needs to be a secured configuration to ensure that there is no compromise of the security between the system and the API connection. One of the best ways of ensuring secure and effective dependencies is to incorporate a dependency-check plugin scanner into our code. Practically a non-intrusive test which would be the best method to ensure code security and all dependencies are current because dependencies that require updates make the app less secure. 

